README.md, before:

# Copy Relative Path Button

[![VS Marketplace](https://img.shields.io/visual-studio-marketplace/v/kazoottt.copy-relative-path-button?label=VS%20Marketplace)](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=kazoottt.copy-relative-path-button)
[![Installs](https://img.shields.io/visual-studio-marketplace/i/kazoottt.copy-relative-path-button)](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=kazoottt.copy-relative-path-button)
[![Rating](https://img.shields.io/visual-studio-marketplace/r/kazoottt.copy-relative-path-button)](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=kazoottt.copy-relative-path-button)
[![Latest VSIX](https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/KazooTTT/copy-relative-path-button?label=GitHub%20Release)](https://github.com/KazooTTT/copy-relative-path-button/releases/latest)

A simple VS Code extension that adds a button to the editor title bar for copying the relative path of the active file to the clipboard.

## Usage

![Copy relative path demo](docs/assets/demo.gif)

## Features

- **One-click path copying**: Click the copy button in the editor title bar to instantly copy the relative path of the currently opened file.
- **Visual feedback**: After successful copying, the button icon changes to a checkmark for 3 seconds to confirm the action.
- **Workspace awareness**: Automatically detects if you're in a workspace and copies relative or absolute paths accordingly.
- **No configuration needed**: Works out of the box with no additional settings required.

## How to Use

1. Open any file in VS Code
2. Look for the copy icon in the right corner of the editor title bar
3. Click the button to copy the relative path
4. The path is now in your clipboard, ready to paste

## Installation

- From Marketplace: [kazoottt.copy-relative-path-button](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=kazoottt.copy-relative-path-button)
- From GitHub Releases (VSIX): [Latest release](https://github.com/KazooTTT/copy-relative-path-button/releases/latest)

### From VSIX File

1. Download the `.vsix` file from the [latest release](https://github.com/KazooTTT/copy-relative-path-button/releases/latest)
2. Open VS Code
3. Press `Ctrl+Shift+P` (or `Cmd+Shift+P` on Mac)
4. Type "Extensions: Install from VSIX"
5. Select the downloaded `.vsix` file

### From Source

1. Clone this repository
2. Run `npm install` or `pnpm install`
3. Run `npm run compile` or `pnpm run compile`
4. Press `F5` to open the extension in development mode

## Development

To contribute or modify the extension:

```bash
git clone <repository-url>
cd copy-relative-path-button
pnpm install
pnpm run compile
# Then press F5 in VS Code to test
```

## Release Notes

### 0.0.1

- Initial release with copy relative path functionality and visual feedback system

---

**Enjoy copying relative paths effortlessly!**

Commit message:

feat(extension): 增加复制路径带行号列号功能，并增加状态栏快捷选择
- 增加了一个命令，用于复制相对路径，同时包含行号和列号信息
- 编辑器标题栏按钮现在支持Alt/Option-click，用于复制带有位置信息的路径
- 增加了一个状态栏按钮，点击后可以快速选择复制普通路径还是带位置信息的路径
- 添加了快捷键 Cmd+Alt+Shift+C (macOS) / Ctrl+Alt+Shift+C (Win/Linux) 用于复制带位置信息的路径
- 优化了用户体验，复制成功后更快地恢复图标

README.md, after:

# Copy Relative Path Button

[![VS Marketplace](https://img.shields.io/visual-studio-marketplace/v/kazoottt.copy-relative-path-button?label=VS%20Marketplace)](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=kazoottt.copy-relative-path-button)
[![Installs](https://img.shields.io/visual-studio-marketplace/i/kazoottt.copy-relative-path-button)](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=kazoottt.copy-relative-path-button)
[![Rating](https://img.shields.io/visual-studio-marketplace/r/kazoottt.copy-relative-path-button)](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=kazoottt.copy-relative-path-button)
[![Latest VSIX](https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/KazooTTT/copy-relative-path-button?label=GitHub%20Release)](https://github.com/KazooTTT/copy-relative-path-button/releases/latest)

A simple VS Code extension that adds a button to the editor title bar for copying the relative path of the active file to the clipboard.

## Usage

![Copy relative path demo](docs/assets/demo.gif)

## Features

- **One-click path copying**: Click the copy button in the editor title bar to instantly copy the relative path of the currently opened file.
- **Visual feedback**: After successful copying, the button icon changes to a checkmark for 3 seconds to confirm the action.
- **Active tab aware**: The editor title button shows based on the active tab, not only when the text area has focus.
- **Status bar button**: A status bar button is always available so you can copy even when focus is on the sidebar (e.g., Chat view).
- **Workspace awareness**: Automatically detects if you're in a workspace and copies relative or absolute paths accordingly.
- **No configuration needed**: Works out of the box with no additional settings required.
- **Choose your mode quickly**: Use Alt/Option-click on the editor title button, a status bar QuickPick, or keybindings to copy either plain path or path with line:column on demand.

## How to Use

1. Open any file in VS Code
2. Use one of the options below:
   - Editor title button: click to copy the path; Alt/Option-click to copy `path:line:column`.
   - Status bar: click `$(copy) Path` to open a QuickPick and choose between plain path or `path:line:column`.
   - Commands/Keybindings: `Copy Relative Path` (`Cmd+Alt+C` on macOS / `Ctrl+Alt+C` on Windows/Linux) or `Copy Relative Path (with Line:Column)` (`Cmd+Alt+Shift+C` / `Ctrl+Alt+Shift+C`).
3. The path is now in your clipboard, ready to paste

## Installation

- From Marketplace: [kazoottt.copy-relative-path-button](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=kazoottt.copy-relative-path-button)
- From GitHub Releases (VSIX): [Latest release](https://github.com/KazooTTT/copy-relative-path-button/releases/latest)

### From VSIX File

1. Download the `.vsix` file from the [latest release](https://github.com/KazooTTT/copy-relative-path-button/releases/latest)
2. Open VS Code
3. Press `Ctrl+Shift+P` (or `Cmd+Shift+P` on Mac)
4. Type "Extensions: Install from VSIX"
5. Select the downloaded `.vsix` file

### From Source

1. Clone this repository
2. Run `npm install` or `pnpm install`
3. Run `npm run compile` or `pnpm run compile`
4. Press `F5` to open the extension in development mode

## Development

To contribute or modify the extension:

```bash
git clone <repository-url>
cd copy-relative-path-button
pnpm install
pnpm run compile
# Then press F5 in VS Code to test
```

## Release Notes

### 0.0.1

- Initial release with copy relative path functionality and visual feedback system

### 0.0.4

- Add second command to copy with `line:column`
- Editor title button supports Alt/Option-click to copy with position
- Status bar button shows QuickPick to choose mode

---

**Enjoy copying relative paths effortlessly!**
